header:EW GU (May 25, 2025)
So I came across this youtube: https://youtu.be/5m7LnLgvMnM and thought it interesting.
Younger me would have considered string theory as empirically irrelevant and useless especially by the influence of the people like those people, and I came long away from such a view. Though this is not about that issue, which requires a long, long post.
And I think I see where Eric (usually we write by last name, but I don't want this to pop up in search engines) is trying to say. For example, see http://arxiv.org/abs/1503.00238 where the geometric formulation of quantum mechanics that makes it something like classical theories is reviewed. His intention seems to be that this line of works is pushed further such that instead of specific Lagrangians, we have geometries that encode dynamics naturally - thus the name of his project.
Sean (again first name mentioned to avoid search engines) talks about anomaly cancellations, and there is a well-known review paper by master: http://cds.cern.ch/record/508470/files/0107059.pdf .
Today many people do not work on what was originally envisioned as string theory, so it would be wrong to say that these results are what drive people to most quantum gravity research projects today. But I think justifications of string theory work like this. For familiar versions of quantum gravity where we expect gravity to be like other particles/fields, we expect spin-2 graviton bosons. There are different no-go results for these bosons - in quantum gravity, almost nothing works. String theory somehow magically was able to evade these no-go theorems, and it has an appealing feature of replacing point-like particles with strings which are beneficial for avoiding infinities while pictorially remaining similar (well at least until some point). None of the alternatives really did that - LQG or what, so string theory remained most conservative(!) approach to quantum gravity yet, with most conservative turning out to be most controversial. Anomaly cancellation is important in the conventional understanding of quantum gravity, but may not be so for other approaches. (I forgot the names of no-go theorems - will update if I somehow remember.)
The controversial parts of string theory are there: compactification (10-11 dimensions), supersymmetry, dS vacua controversies (swampland?) and more which we are yet to confirm. But in the meantime, people started to work on the effective field theory of string theory that works mostly independently of these questions. While AdS/CFT is originally a strong result, what is used most of the time is its weak version where two EFTs (one gravitational, one non-gravitational) are dual to each other. When AdS/CFT is invoked, we actually tend to ignore the compactification issue, though what this really means can depend.
In any case, never expected a physics discussion would come up in such a youtube channel.
header:On path integrals and quantization procedures: is non-unitarity of effective field theory that bad? (May 25, 2025)
Largely continuing from the earlier (above) EW GU post. There is this thing I found interesting about Eric's arguments: quantization. This is because even conventionally, we know that path integrals can produce non-unitary QFTs in theoretically pathological spacetime, even though it can "empirically" be imagined. This is prohibited in typical QFT on curved spacetime obviously, and as a fundamental theory, this should be. It is well-known that linearity arises as information requirements, and there are problems if non-linearity is introduced.
However, QFTs are almost always used as EFTs. So some non-linearity and non-unitarity might not be so destructive and may provide a valid approximation, as long as we are assured that unitarity and lineariy are eventually restored within EFT. By non-unitarity, of course, we still need to normalize to allow for probabilistic interpreations. Nevertheless, unitarity has special mathematical meanings within linearity, physically unitarity without linearity is about ensuring unit norm. And we do not know exactly what leads to probability in quantum physics. Therefore, I think we should be cautious about throwing away non-unitary "effective" field theories, especially when we are yet to fully understand all classically nonlinear emergent behavior from linear quantum physics. This line of thoughts should (and is implicitly) being applied in quantum gravity in cases like replica wormholes, though they are much more well-justified.
So I don't know. That's the point here.
header:Large-N behaviors, non-linearity and classicality (May 25, 2025)
(Continued from above)
As in the JCM model (see https://mkimacad.github.io/bh_jaynes_cummings ), whenever N is large, its Rabi oscillation is similar for similar N's. In this sense, these large-N cavity states can be trated identically, though if we stretch this too far, then we get paradoxes like the information problem, since these states are actually different.
Additionally, we cannot add compute classical wave-like superposition of $|N\rangle-|N+1\rangle \approx |N\rangle - |N+1\rangle \approx 0$? - this is disallowed in quantum physics. However, in some non-JCM cases, we do have $\langle N|N+1\rangle \approx 1$ for large N as well. In such a case, under theoretically pathological spacetime such that QFT cannot be constructed on with established quantization procedures, then path integrals lead to significant non-linearity under large-N if we initially started from small-N states and evolve those states into large-N states.
Instead of completely rejecting this as conventionally done, we may understand this as an EFT behavior and try to understand what non-linear classical behaviors we can extract, knowing that this is only very approximately valid.
But I don't know.
header:test
$test:0<n$,
$$test:0<n$$
