img:hario_switch_failed_sora.png
header:Ice-breaking but with hot coffee
See: https://mkimacad.github.io/coffee maybe?
From the above image, we know that latest image models (Sora, maybe?) are yet far from perfection.
The prompt was to generate a Hario switch dripper, with coffee being extracted. It did not understand that the dripper rib structure is essential to V60 and Hario switch. Nevertheless, I felt this is interesting, because the image resembles what a layman uninterested in drip (filter) coffee would have drawn. And the image otherwise is decent. So many things have changed from 2020 - for better or for worse (in case of education).
Sometimes coffee brewing seems like the reverse of aerodynamics..
header:My interest
Back to the main overview. My main interest is around quantum (computation) insights applied to black holes and sometimes philosophy. But I am actually most interested in black holes, and I believe holography still provides the best way to study them.
header:On (journal) published papers.
https://mkimacad.github.io/philsci_time, https://mkimacad.github.io/quantum_thermal_search, https://mkimacad.github.io/braneworld. Possibly on order of ascending importance.
header:Black hole singularities can be beneficial? (Journal Sophia)
In https://mkimacad.github.io/philsci_time, I ask whether black hole singularities can be good things, allowing us to avoid inconvenient philosophical and logical issues by cutting down observer timelines to finite proper time. (Published in Journal Sophia)
header:Quantum thermal search (Journal Quantum Information Processing)
In https://mkimacad.github.io/quantum_thermal_search, I ask whether quantum thermodynamics (mainly cooling) can be harnessed to provide exponential speedup for search problems. The answer is sort-of yes, sort-of no. If exponential precision to purity of some bath is considered demanding, the answer is no. If inability to write down exact interaction Hamiltonian is considered problematic, the answer is also no, and conventional qubit gate-based simuations are impossible without collapsing to quantum random walks. If we believe that there are realistically thermal interactions between some system and the bath, then the answer is yes, as can be simply understood in terms of the modified Jaynes-Cummings (JCM) model. (Published in Journal Quantum Information Processing)
header:On Karch-Randall braneworld (Journal Fortschritte der Physik - Progress of Physics)
In https://mkimacad.github.io/braneworld, I investigate the Karch-Randall braneworld and controversies. Holography of information says that quantum gravity observables are different, and black hole information is already on the black hole exterior. This view is not necessarily in conflict with the Karch-Randall braneworld view, manifest as the Hilbert space factorization problem in the Karch-Randall braneworld. Basically the problem is that the bulk is shared by both the brane and the standard boundary, and the entanglement wedge of a boundary region can overlap with the brane. So bulk Hilbert space regional factorization-wise, there are information separation troubles, but this is not actually an issue, if we believe in holography of information. Nevertheless, holography of information alone ('Page curve unnecessary') does not resolve the black hole information problem, since it is possible that near-horizon behaviors can still be pathological, and this is what motivates many to replicate the Page curve. And indeed, we could say that while the Page curve is rendered obsolete in a full quantum gravity (QG) theory, it is not in a non-gravitational theory with our familiar and usual local quantum observables. Holography is special, in sense that a QG theory has a dual non-gravitational understanding with a lower spacetime dimension, so we can explore the Page curve in a non-gravitational theory. This is analyzed within the conventional Karch-Randall braneworld setup and the toy Karch-Randall braneworld qudit model. (Published in Progress of Physics)
header:Additional research projects being worked on.
https://mkimacad.github.io/ads_vaebm, https://mkimacad.github.io/bh_jaynes_cummings, https://mkimacad.github.io/imaginary_time_DL
header:AdS/VAEBM - studying perturbations to AdS/CFT via deep learning?
In https://mkimacad.github.io/ads_vaebm (Revision stage, Nuclear Physics B submission), I push the idea of holography with deep learning. The paper builds on the AdS/DL proposal of Hashimoto (2019), but makes the functional form of admissible (theory) actions flexible by swapping DBM with the variational encoder-EBM structure. Essentially, Hashimoto (2019) is the holographic path integral implementation in terms of deep learning, and the DBM restriction is an implementation choice due to training questions, not theoretical necessities. The idea is that with deep learning, we can explore how far holography can remain valid with perturbations of different 'boundaries'. In the paper, I explore perturbations to IR limits, while largely keeping the UV CFT. Gravity that reflects such perturbations in terms of encoded Euclidean action in a gravity theory, and we suggest how this may be searched by constraining the loss function. This is useful because the problem with holography currently is that we get wrong IR limits, along with wrong bulk spacetime. Without dropping holography, we may study how far holography can be saved with this AdS/VAEBM proposal, though "AdS" here is strictly not necessary. I also show that while IR encodes and compresses information on UV, probabilistic independence can be noted such that some UV state can correspond to multiple IR states and vice versa, which provides a key in understanding observable and meausrment behaviors that become important in interpreting issues in quantum gravity.
header:The modified Jaynes-Cummings (JCM) model of black holes
In https://mkimacad.github.io/bh_jaynes_cummings (First round submission stage), I continue on the toy qudit model of the black hole but now specifically instantiated in terms of the modified Jaynes-Cummings model. This allows us to explore more precisely and specifically where the small corrections theorem of Samir Mathur went wrong, along with the AMPS firewall argument. Or the problem is actually on what we mean by 'no drama or semiclassical horizon,' and the small corrections theorem continues to hold if we insist on the black hole exterior horizon largely remaining vacuum and the interior horizon being the same exterior vacuum - it is the interior horizon that breaks down from being the vacuum state at late times, but not the exterior horizon.
The problem is that large-N quasi-vacuum behaviors are different for the exterior and the interior. From the exterior, we notice no difference from what classical predictions would imply accounting for average black hole evaporation due to the sheer number of N (evaporation builds up in tiny amounts, while effective radiations are numerous). The same usual EFT radiations are generated if we assume that the interior shares the same exterior quasi-vacuum circumstance. But the black hole interior is so heavily mixed such that in some instances, the black hole is already empty, for which the radiations can no longer be generated. Around maximal black hole entropy feasible, we can no longer rely on the conventional EFT estimates that treat the exterior and the interior quasi-vacuum the same. We get illusions of no drama and semiclassicality because of this large-N behavior on the exterior. This does not mean EFT necessarily breaks, nor requires firewalls. Semiclassical spacetime geometry is perfectly fine. Indeed, if the interior horizon truly remained vacuum, then we would have the same radiation generations, so this is not a problem of theory. It is our misunderstanding of quantum states involved that leads to troubles. We can instead opt to modify EFT to continue to treat the interior horizon as if it is the same exterior horizon vacuum, which leads to ideas like replica wormholes, where Euclidan graviational path integrals incorporating additional topolgies modify the theory but without actually changing the underlying theory. This reflects the idea that as black holes are completely emptied in some quantum "branches"/instances, no radiation can be generated so information must be represented as if the interior and the exterior share the same information.
header:High-frequency filtering via imaginary-time deep learning
In https://mkimacad.github.io/imaginary_time_DL (First round submission stage), I explore how the use of imaginary time in deep learning can aid high-frequency filtering. In contrast to empirical signals, we can compute samples of different functions that allow for complex domain. This leads to significant computation and filtering performance differences in deep learning.
