header:History (date-wise)
Forked from https://mkimacad.github.io/bh_jaynes_cummings: May 31-June 2, 2025
Major update (v1): June 5-6, 2025
Manuscript v1, along with the page update: June 21-23, 2025
header:A problem with conventional thought experiments that establish the necessity of quantum gravity
Attempts to demonstrate the necessity of gravity quantization typically resort to quantum measurement results or are susceptible to wavefunction collapse mechanisms.
In many ways, the original spirit of Feynman-Bohr-Rosenfeld has not changed much for more modern no-go thought experiments. We often try to show that because semiclassical gravity applies the same gravitational field to every outcome in a superposition, each outcome branch eventually notices effects of other outcomes which should be prohibited by these outcomes being mutually orthogonal. It is more difficult to prove inconsistencies directly on the full superposition - after all, QFT on curved spacetime is consistent whenever it is well-defined, if not considering backreactions. And whenever we measure each outcome to reveal inconsistencies, this all depends on how the measurement process is modeled, which leads to problems. After all, a collapse mechanism may alter gravitational fields such that the gravitational version of the correspondence principle is respected while maintaining semiclassical gravity. 
header:Main goal
A thought experiment for quantization of gravity without being susceptible to collapse mechanisms.
Instead rely on (non-)unitarity and entanglement of the black hole exterior.
At the end of evaporation, if we have significant entanglement entropy (even to the point of monotonic increase) on a black hole assuming semiclassical gravity, then we have a problem (or we assume that this is problematic).
Note that the lesson in https://mkimacad.github.io/bh_jaynes_cummings is: even though this thought experiment for quantization of gravity holds, approximate semiclassicality nevertheless continues to hold via the law of large numbers and the central limit theorem.
A drop on entanglement entropy implies that variance decreases, enforcing semiclassicality.
Since we assume same EFT interactions and only vary whether we use quantum gravity or semiclassical gravity, a clean test.
header:Assumptions
1) The black hole exterior needs to be purified at the end of evaporation.
2) Conventional understandings of effective field theory interactions for black holes remain very accurate. 
The second assumption avoids having to deal with different versions of semiclassical gravity. As long as semiclassical gravity is consistent with the conventional EFT interaction analysis of black holes, we are good for a go.
In mainstream black hole physics, gravity is not fundamentally semiclassical in any form. Nevertheless, for the purpose of analyzing black hole evaporation, semiclassical EFT (with semiclassicality referring to Møller-Rosenfeld, where gravity responds to expected stress-energy tensor) is understood to provide reasonable estimates
header:No-go thought experiment result
For quantum gravity, we can separate the empty black hole branch from non-empty ones and the black hole exterior can be purified.
In contrast, semiclassical gravity cannot separate the empty black hole branch from non-empty ones and the original Hawking argument + small corrections theorem prevent purification of the black hole exterior.
This is all that need to be stated, and refer to the manuscript for the review of historical no-go thought experiments.
(The manuscript makes the previously misleading discussion regarding Feynman-Bohr-Rosenfeld arguments clearer. Furthermore, I felt that in-depth discussions about postquantum gravity are unneessary, and these are removed in this version of the github page on June 22, 2025.)
header:On modeling a hybrid classical-quantum system: there is something more than Peres-Terno!
See https://mkimacad.github.io/hybrid_system .
