header:History (date-wise)
Published: February 27, 2025
Github.io paper description: May 24-27,2025
New description: February 12, 2026
header:Published in Fortschritte der Physik - Progress of Physics
https://doi.org/10.1002/prop.202400194

header:Implementing common descriptions for braneworld, measurement, Jaynes-Cummings papers (February 12, 2026)
The same github.io contents shared for the three papers:
braneworld paper ( https://mkimacad.github.io/braneworld )
unitary quantum measurement model paper ( https://mkimacad.github.io/measurement )
Jaynes-Cummings model of a black hole, which is largely subsumed to the measurement paper ( https://mkimacad.github.io/bh_jaynes_cummings )

header:On the small corrections theorem
See https://mkimacad.github.io/small_corrections . 

header:Braneworld paper summary
The braneworld paper says - nothing more, nothing less - six points that are actually a single point:
1. The reason why we can break the small corrections theorem (of Samir D. Mathur) in the mainstream approach is that Hilbert space factorization breaks down in bulk gravity.
2. In the boundary theory, we cannot apply the small corrections theorem. This is partially by definition, but also because bulk and boundary have different views of localization and Hilbert space factorization (Terashima results).
3. Despite the bulk Hilbert space factorization being invalid, we can still talk of entanglement entropy in the boundary, since the bulk and the boundary have different views of Hilbert space factorization.
4. The Page curve can therefore be described in the boundary, but in the bulk it is invalid. 
Despite the eventual breakdown of bulk EFT, semiclassical background spacetime can be more robust such that entanglement wedge calculations remain largely valid.
5. In the boundary, it's much easier to think of a mechanism of purity restoration for black holes.
6. Holography of information in the bulk is compatible with the Page curve in the boundary.

header:Unitary quantum measurement model paper summary
1. For replica wormholes, the arguments in the braneworld paper are not surprising, sharing the idea that Hilbert space factorization breaks down in the bulk.
2. Replica wormholes are not problematic if we accept that holography can be non-trivial with patches of AdS instead of global (or Poincare) AdS. Bulk EFT can break in this scenario.
3. The controversy regarding replica wormholes only arises whenever one says replica wormholes are non-perturbative consequences of (for example) JT gravity.
4. Unitary JT gravity and its Hilbert space factorization are perfectly fine without replica wormholes, and it is incorrect to say JT gravity requires non-perturbative corrections.
5. It is more that if we view JT as holographic dual, then since it is only an EFT view of the boundary theory, Hilbert space factorization can break down.
6. JT gravity EFT becomes no longer valid when Hilbert space factorization breaks down, and indeed an ensemble view of JT gravity is consistent with this.
7. A single instance diverges significantly from the ensemble average such that it makes no sense to apply the ensemble theory - JT gravity EFT.
8. So it makes no sense to talk about JT gravity EFT creating firewalls - we have to distinguish between the semiclassical spacetime (+ entanglement wedge results) and JT gravity EFT.
9. These two papers (braneworld paper and quantum measurement paper) are consistent with each other.
10 (most importantly). And the quantum measurement model paper further proceeds to suggest that if a final ensemble theory (EFT) state is a maximally mixed state while an actual instance is a pure state, regardless of an initial low-energy EFT state (as to not perturb the initial background spacetime), then we have a unitary quantum measurement model. (This is due to Zurek's envariance papers.)

header:Janyes-Cummings model of a black hole paper summary
1. The Jaynes-Cummings toy model of a black hole in this paper refines the braneworld paper argument.
2. Within the toy model: if there is a unique ground state of a black hole such that interactions simply vanish on this state, then as far as we correct quantum EFT with this ground state correction, quantum EFT may remain perfectly valid.
3. Within the toy model: it can be shown that without these ground state corrections, entanglement entropy simply monotonically increases.
4. Within the toy model: with these ground state corrections, entanglement entropy eventually decreases to zero.
5. Therefore, it may be possible to save (somewhat) the continued validity of bulk EFT and bulk Hilbert space factorization.
6. We can use any M reservoirs at zero temperature, impose conservation of total non-interacting energy, to cool down a black hole to its ground state.
However, the first problem is that in case a black hole is like a system with exponentially many excited states then it is generally very difficult to find a good interaction Hamiltonian such that cooling time is not exponential. It is this issue that the Jaynes-Cummings model overcomes. 
Even if the first problem is not actually an issue, most setups cannot provide a toy explanation of why bulk EFT becomes invalid at late time evaporation or how bulk EFT may be saved in light of troubles.

header:(Beyond the papers) Can error correction avoid the small corrections theorem directly in the bulk?
1. An error corrections approach (Petz map, for example) typically is about the logical Hilbert space being smaller than the physical Hilbert space.
2. Furthermore, it typically tends to be about an ability of some subspace redundantly encoding another subspace.
3. If small corrections to the physical theory can encode all information, then Petz map can save purity and unitarity in the logical Hilbert space. Argument: while exponentially small, there are exponentially many correction terms in one matrix, and when appropriately collected, we can restore full information to restore purity even when the state is approximately maximally mixed.
4. While this may work, the real question is about how semiclassicality breaks.
We can accept that the physical Hilbert space is only semiclassical such that the exterior logical Hilbert space is actual.
But how does the semiclassical picture break down such that only the exterior logical Hilbert space is valid?
This can only be answered direclty in the physical Hilbert space - the answer provided by the braneworld paper is that bulk Hilbert space factorization breaks down: booundary Hilbert space factorization does not correspond well to bulk Hilbert space factorization.
Therefore, error corrections cannot alone avoid the small corrections theorem.
5. When gravity acts as a Haar-random operation, the approximate fixed point is roughly maximally mixed, though some variance from this fixed point is there - however, variance is extremely small whenever the dimension of the black hole exterior is large. This is expected - small corrections. (see Movassagh and Shenker 2021 for the exact result.)
6. If we want to avoid the Haar-random analysis, we can drop the chaotic assumption as implicitly done in the ensemble approach - a single instance becomes so different from the ensemble chaotic behavior such that each instance does not have chaotic behaviors.
7. Alternatively, we can deny that each Haar-random operation does not rely on the entanglement between the interior and the exterior - some violation of locality.

8 (side note). It can also be noted that a failure of error correction for describing late-time black hole interiors is often understood as the physical Hilbert space of the interior becoming lower than the logical interior Hilbert space. We can pick the exterior code subspace to avoid this issue.

header:(Beyond the papers) Can fine-grained Hilbert space avoid the small corrections theorem?
1. This essentially corresponds to an argument that the black hole information problem only exists in quantum gravity and should only be cast in quantum gravity.
2. The small corrections theorem IS about why this argument alone is insufficient, but the "qubit" formulation has turned out to be fairly controversial.
Nevertheless, if we accept the qubit formulation, then accumulation of small corrections theorem remains small such that monotonic entanglement entropy increase cannot be avoided.
Despite being cast in EFT, the theorem works exactly because the premise of the theorem is that only small corrections to an EFT state are made at each "turn" when the full quantum gravity state is mapped to EFT.
The extended small corrections theorem more clearly outlines this aspect.
3. The non-perturbative effect argument to entropy calculations is not a valid unitary argument, though this requires a discussion of replica wormholes.
4. A mixed EFT state is always very close in terms of "simple observables" to some pure EFT state.
(See Suvrat Raju's review on the information problem - also, this can be cast as an application of ETH - eignestate thermalization hypothesis.) 
Generically, this is a large correction, so it breaks the small corrections premise.
It is this path that the small corrections theorem is sometimes brushed aside.
However, this is a flawed argument, unless more is assumed.
We can of course correct the initial mixed state to a pure state, invoking ETH w/ simple observables. However, are we supposed to correct dynamics and evolution as well?
Because if we do not provide large dynamic corrections when evolving an EFT state, then the small corrections theorem remains valid.
And it is this dynamic correction part that ETH cannot alone explain, because it is a static or kinematic result, not a dynamic result.
It is this dynamic correction that is to be explained, and we cannot just solve even the EFT-wise information problem by assuming a larger fine-grained Hilbert space.
