header:On simulation code (baseline: codes/jaynes_improved.py)
Main parameters at the end (currently line 368 # parameters):
M (number of atoms), N (number of photons), reduc (multiplicative factor by which interaction time is reduced).
The codes model the interaction Hamiltonian only, but this is fine since "free Hamiltonians" are irrelevant in interactions here.
header:Some trivial matters (1): Initial "cavity"/black hole state choice, some terminology equivalence
In this paper $|N\rangle$ is chosen as an initial state. We can go more realistically and choose a 'Gaussian' state of different excitation states (which fits a semiclassical state better) without much difference.
Black hole=(Optical) Cavity, (Hawking) radiations=Atom qubits
header:Some trivial matters (2): On "time" in this modified Jaynes-Cummings (JCM) model
Since this is a toy qudit model, time is modelled as the number of qubits that interacted with the black hole. This can be re-scaled to fit the Page curve and so the slope of the entropy curve should not be of concern here. It can also be noted that initial entropy increase can be slowed down (such that increases are almost constant across initially interacting qubits) by tuning down the interaction time of each qubit, which is available in the baseline code by reduc parameter.
header:Do we need to replicate the Page curve, given holography of information?
See discussions in https://mkimacad.github.io/braneworld, but some of them are replicated here. In short, confirmation by our familiar local non-gravitational horizon observables is important. Holography of information can be or is correct, but there may still be pathologies around black hole horizons that require understanding. We cannot simply invoke unitarity of quantum physics or AdS/CFT to resolve the information problem, and this is essentially the same thing.
header:Large-M,Large-N,small interaction time behavior
To be updated, this is the most important part to understand about the black hole horizon.
header:Where the small corrections theorem and the AMPS firewall subadditivity paradox got wrong - or the imprecise meaning of "semiclassical no-drama horizon"
Updates coming up.
header:Effective dimension of the black hole Hilbert space, as relating to the small corrections theorem
The small corrections theorem assumes that the effective black hole Hilbert space dimension can increase over time. However, can we really assume so? We can argue that the point of the small corrections theorem is to say that our usual semiclassical picture requires such increases, and the contents of this paper clarify why we can still have some form of semiclassicality and yet effective dimension must decrease over time.
header:Exterior horizon understanding at late times (Large-M)
Semiclassicality is valid. The sheer amout M means that the central limit theorem (CLT, and the law of large numbers (LLN) ) kicks in especially for total amount of energy emitted to the exterior so far. The spacetime should therefore see nothing special, and this should hold for the interior horizon as well. To take advantage of large M, one may consider reducing the interaction time in the code in order to invoke CLT/LLN.
It may be argued that qubit variance varies over time such that CLT is not applicable. After reducing interacting time and considering some relatively small time duration, we can apply CLT for this sub-region, which means that energy emitted is reliably semiclassical.
In short, $\textbf{Spacetime geometry semiclassicality is valid}$, but see below. 
header:Interior horizon understanding at late times
In short, $\textbf{Interior horizon is not EFT vacuum}$, violating this part of semiclassicality. However, the idea like replica wormholes can have potentials to save the interior horizon state as a vacuum at the cost of modifying EFT or implicitly modifying quantum states anyway.
While the total energy emitted remains semiclassical, the mixed superposition state of the interior is messy - some branches/outcomes that just collapsed to the ground state reduces entropy - when such entropy reduction is greater than entropy increase, then entropy curve starts to decrease. EFT-wise, the ground state would be understood as complete evaporation, and no one would argue that even in such a case would entanglement be generated.
Therefore, it is not really the EFT that is part of the problem. It is the insistence that EFT should radiate away energy and generate entanglement even when a particular branch/outcome already has black holes fully evaporated that leads to a paradoxical result.
Except for the black hole ground state, each black hole excited state interacts the way we expect with exterior qubits, generating monotonic entanglement increases.
If the spacetime geometry (which encodes energy of the black hole) can safely provide the quantum state of the interior horizon approximately, then we cannot avoid the small corrections theorem. The problem is that we cannot safely provide the state despite semiclassical stability of the spacetime geometry based on total energy emitted, and there is nothing wrong with semiclassical EFT.
header:Black hole (stretched horizon) complementarity as a natural interpretation though not a necessary requirement
To be updated
