header:Published in Journal Sophia
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11841-021-00829-5
header:Again descriptions revised in 2026 (from an email I sent)
1) It deals with a version of KCA that connects with the paradox of infinity (in particular, William Lane Craig's). There are doubts as to whether the paradox of infinity ("infinite time or time infinity does not make sense") is a valid paradox. Why is a real number line not sufficient? In the article, I simply avoid this issue, and say: suppose the paradox of infinity is valid - so what?

2) Black hole physics in the classical physics picture says that any object falling into a black hole will hit 'end of its worldline' at singularities within finite proper time. You may say, isn't there a quantum story? But quantum superposition is roughly a superposition of different worldline stories, and the fact that any worldline that enters a black hole will hit singularities within finite proper time does not change.

3) Now this does not mean the universe stops, because relativity in physics assures us different views of the world such that external observers that do not fall into a black hole (though they may fall into other black holes) can see the entire black hole evaporating. So from their point of view, there is nothing particularly wrong about the universe.

4) Because black holes will always form at the cosmological scale, any worldline will very likely fall into some black hole one day. This means the proper length of its worldline is also going to be finite.
With this intuition, if we assume that the probability of any admissible worldline falling into a black hole is basically 1, then every admissible worldline will have finite proper length. This does not mean that the universe has "the end" - for any worldline, there will be another worldline that "watches" it die. So no worldline has infinite proper length and yet the universe is basically infinite. 

5) In other words, there may be only finite-length worldlines, and we may take some limit of these worldlines to grasp the infinite universe, but this limit picture is not a worldline picture and therefore does not have a valid notion of time.

6) Now take this picture to the beginning of the universe, instead of the "end". You can imagine Big Bang or even some radiation that we may approximately take to be particles coming out of black hole evaporation that establish new worldlines. Those do not necessarily suggest the only "beginning moment", because relativity is there. So from other worldline points of view, there may be an external observer that "watches" the birth of these worldlines. This is better to understand with black hole radiation point of view. While worldlines in black holes can no longer be extended, external observers or worldlines watch radiation emitted from the (effective) black hole horizon, which "starts" a new worldline. This worldline will, as other worldlines, fall into a black hole and meet its finite end. That does not mean the world has to have the beginning or the end, as there are other worldlines watching it being created and stopped.

7) The conclusion is that with relativity (and its product, black holes) in physics, even if infinite time or time infinity does not make sense, nothing forces us to accept 'the beginning' or 'the end' of the universe as a logical conclusion. So more is needed - other scientific or logical evidence, or even the idea that we do not need such evidence to support theism.
Every worldline may have a beginning and an end, but we now see that relativity implies this can be true while the universe is essentially unbounded. 

8) "Everything in the universe" in KCA does/should not include the universe itself. The universe that exists does not have to have a cause even when its constituents all have some cause. 
(It kind of reminds me of the set of all sets not being a set, and paradoxes that come out of it.)
